# Module 3
## Functions
Functions are one of the most important parts of programming. A function is just a grouping of code that can be called at any point in your program. Functions are used because they allow us to simplify our code. To make a function in Python all we need to do is use the `def` keyword then make an identifier for our function and finally write the code that we want the function to execute whenever it is called, for example:

```
# Whenever this function is called it will ask for your name and print it.
def printName():
	name = input("Enter your name: ")
	print(name)
```

Once a function is defined we can use it anywhere in our program, we do this by referencing the function, for example we can call the `printName` function we just made like this:
```
# This calls the function that we made earlier and executes the code inside of it
printName()
```


## Function Arguments

Functions can take in arguments such as numbers or strings and do things with them, we do this by putting some variable name inside the parenthesis when defining the function as such:

```
# This function takes in a variable and prints out that it is your name
def printName(name):
	print(f"Your name is {name}"
```

We can then run 

```
printName("John")

# or

personOneName = "John"
printName(personOneName)

# Both of these examples will print (Your name is John)
```

Something that always trips people up is that you can name the argument whatever you want, in my example I called the input name, but you can call it x, or y, or thisIsThePersonsNameThatIWantToPrint, it does not matter, it is just a reference to the variable that you pass to it. To further drive my point I will show some code that is specificily defines the type that the function is expecting, you do not have to do this.

```
# whatevery you pass in will be referenced in the function as personsName
def printName(personsName: str):
	print(f"Your name is {personsName}")

printName("David")
```

In this example I explicity told the function that whatever is passed in needs to be of type string, so anything that is a string can be passed in as an argument, that argument will the be referenced as personsName throughout the function as defined. 


## Returning From Functions

The most important feature that a function employs is returning. From any function you can return something using the `return`  keyword . When functions return somethings you can thing of the functions equaling whatever is returned .The best way to understand this concept is to see it in action. 


```
def addition(a, b):
	return a + b

# We set number equal to the addition function, thus
# number will be equal to whatever is returned from the function
number = addition(5, 10)

# This will print 15, because the addition function returns 15
print(number)
```
Here are some more examples:

```
def greetingFunc(n):
	return f"Hello {n}, it's nice to meet you"

name = input("Enter your name: ")
greeting = greetingFunc(name)
print(greeting)
```
one more, 

```
def isTeen(age):
	if 13 <= age <=19:
		return True
	else:
		return False
			
yearsOld = int(input("How old are you: "))

if isTeen(yearsOld):
	print("You are a teenager")
else:
	print("You are not a teenager")

```

## Function Scope

Things inside of functions are isolated from all of your other code, things in your function can only see other things declared in your function or things you pass into the function, this is called function scope. Here is an example of this:
```
name = "Emily"

def printName():
	print(name)
	
# If we run this code it will crash
printName()
```
Since we did not pass in a parameter for name into the function, the function will not be able to see the name variable declared outside the scope.

Another example:
```
c = 5

def addThreeNumbers(a, b):
	return a + b + c

print(addThreeNumbers(5, 10))
```
We only take in a and b as parameters, but we try to add them together with an outside variable because c is not in the scope of the variable your program will crash whenever it is called.

## Extra stuff
You can call functions inside of other functions, this is called nested functions. For example:

```
def getName():
	name = input("Please enter your name: ")
	return name

def greetPerson():
	name = getName()
	return f"It is nice to meet you {name}"

print(greetPerson())
```

same thing again just slightly different,

```
def getName():
	name = input("Please enter your name: ")
	return name

def greetPerson(n):
	return f"It is nice to meet you {n}"

print(greetPerson(getName()))
```
In this example I nested the functions, the innermost function is always called in these situations. In this code we call greetPerson(getName()), so getName() will execute first, once executed it will return with the value of whatever the user inputted then that value will be passed into the outer function call greetPerson().

