# Module 2

## Flow of Control
As we write code, we might want different outcomes based on certain outcomes. This ranges from the user's input or outcomes from calculations/algorithms. These structures are referred to as ***Selection Statements*** and help control the outcome of code operations/outputs. 

The Selections Statements covered in this this module are **IF/ELSE** and **MATCH CASE**. These statements are dependent on a boolean value and I explained that as I cover their syntax.

#### IF/ELSE 
A basic If/Else statement has the syntax:
```
if True:
    print("Yes")
else:
    print("No")
```

With this snippet of code, when ran, will print `Yes` onto the console as the boolean after if is `True`. When this happens, the code under `else` does not run. Here is the another example:

```
if False:
    print("Yes")
else:
    print("No")
```
This code will print out `No` as the boolean value next to if is `False`. This tells the IDE not to run the code that falls under `if`. Hence, it goes to `else` and priny out `No`. 

Mathematical expressions deduce to a boolean expression (True/False). Example:

```
x = 1
if 4 > 3:
    print("4 is bigger")
    x = x + 1
else:
    print("4 is smaller")
    x = x - 1
```

In this code, `x` is set to 1. The IDE evaluates the expression `4 > 3`. Since mathematically 4 is greater than 3, behind the scenes, `4 > 3 -> True`. This prints out `4 is bigger` and increases `x` by 1. making it have a value of 2.

See (Module2.py for more examples)


#### MATCH CASE
Though very similar to if/else, the match case uses the key word `match` and `case`. It is structured by using `match` followed by the variable to be checked. It is then followed by a new line indented with the key word `case` followed by the value expected from the variable. If the value next to the specific case matches the value in the variable, the code under that specific case will run.
Example:
```
conditions = int(80 / 10)
print("It is in the " + str(conditions) + "0's.")
match conditions: # conditions = 8
    case 10:
        print("stay inside" ) 
    case 9:
        print("be careful due to heat" )
    case 8:
        print("it is hot, but not extreme" ) # This will print out as the currem 
    case 7:
        print("pack a picnic")
    case _:
        print("take a jacket")
```

