# Module 1
## Printing

Python is one of the most readable languages as its syntax is close to classic pseudocode which makes it easy to read.

With many beginners, the first line of code that is ran is usually a print statement with the text/string "Hello World". 
For python, the keyword `print` is used to print information onto the console. Code may look like this:

```print("Hello World")```

## Data Types

Data in its most simplistic form is just a collection of information. As a programmer all you are really doing is manipulating data, to help simplify things for us we have categorized data into different types. There are may types of data, but for now we will just focus on 4 main types. Those types are:

- String - A collection of characters, you can think of a string as a word of a sentence, `"Hello World"`, `"Hi"`, or `"A"`
- Integer - A whole number, meaning a number with no decimal point such as `1`, `50`, or `1000`
- Float - A number that has a decimal point such as `12.5`, `101.21`, or `10.0`
- Boolean - Represents true or false, a boolean can only be `True` or `False`


## Variables

Variables are like containers that we can store data inside. We use variable to allow us to make references to certain data at any point in out program. To declare a variable you must first declare an identifier, (a name you give a variable), then set it equal to something such as: 

```number = 5``` or
```name = "John"``` or 
```cost = 10.58``` or 
```isCorrect = True```

It is important to keep some things in mind when creating variables, 

- You can not make multiple variables with the same name, each variable must have a unique name. For example if you make a variable as such, ```number = 5```, and later on decide that you need another variable to keep track of a number and also name it like, ```number = 25```, you will override the initial variable and set it equal to 25. 

- Variable names can not contain spaces,  `User Input`, is not a valid variable name. To fix this you can insted name the variable `User_Input` or `UserInput`.

- When declaring a variable to equal a string you must put the string in quotes, for example ```name = Kyle``` will throw an error because there are no quotes around Kyle. The correct way to do this is ```name = "Kyle"```.


## Input
Collecting information from the person using your program is a necessity in any programming language. In Python the way that we achieve this is by using the `input()` function. Usually we want to keep the users input and thus store it in  a variable. An example of getting input from a user goes as follows:

```Name = input("Please enter your name: ")```

There are three main parts to this statement. First is the identifier for the variable, which we named `Name`, Next there is the actual input function,  ```input()```, which tells the computer that it needs to collect input from the user, Finally there is the prompt that will be shown to the user, in our case it is  ```"Please enter your name: "```. Please note that the prompt is enclosed in quotes because it is a string. An example of this entire process is as follows:

```
# This line gets input from the user
Name = input("Please enter your name: ")

# This line prints out whatever the user inputted
print(Name)
```
## Comments
You might have noticed in the previous code segments that there are lines of code that start with a `#`. These are comments, a comment is like a note that you can leave in your code, the Python interpreter will not ignore comments, and thus they will not be executed.

```
# This is a single-line comment

'''
You can also make multi-line comments
as such with '''xxx''' 
'''
```


## Casting

Casting refers to the process of making one data type another. As you saw in the previous section you can take in input from the user and store it in a variable. One weird thing about this is that whenever you take in input whatever the user enters will be assumed to be a string, thus if you want the user to input an integer of float you will have to cast them to be that data type. For example: 

```
Number = input("Please enter a number: ")
# Example input, Please enter a number: 5

# In python you can show the type of the things you put inside its parenthisis by using the type function
print(type(Number))

'''
Output: <class 'str'>, this means that out number variable is a string, 
if we want to make it an int we have to cast it as such, we can acomplish this in two diffrent ways
'''

# We can cast it as we take in the input like this, wraping the whole input in int()
Number = int(input("Please enter a number: "))
print(type(Number))
# Output: <class 'int'>

# We can also just keep it as a string and cast it as an integer when we need it to be one
Number = input("Please enter a number: ")
print(int(Number) + 5)

'''
Either way is fine, but casting it when you take in the input allows you to not have to 
worry about casting it as an integer over and over again.
'''
```

You can cast pretty much any data type, the syntax is as such: str(), float(), int().

## Operators

Operators are symbols that allow you to do arithmetic, some operators you may be familiar with are 

```
+ - This is the addition sign, you use it to do addition and concatenate strings
EX: print(1 + 1)
This will print 2
```
```
- - This is the subtraction sign, you use it to do subtraction 
EX: print(10 - 5)
This will print 5
```
```
* - This is the multiplication sign, you use it to do multiplication 
EX: print(6 * 8)
This will print 48
```
```
/ - This is the division sign, you use it to divide 
EX: print(20 / 5)
This will print 4
```
```
% - This is the modulus sign, you use it to find the remainder of something
EX: print(20 % 3)
This will print 2, this is because 3 goes into 20 6 times and will have a remainder of 2
```


## Printing Revisited

Now that we have learned about data types and variables we can talk about printing such things. To print a variable all you  have to to is use the print function and pass in the variable name as such: 

```
Name = "John"
print(Name)

# Output: John
```
To go one step further we can print a string and a variable together as such:

```
# There are many ways to do this, 

# Way 1
'''
This only works if the variable you are using is a string, so if it's 
some other data type you will need to cast it as a string
'''
Name = "John"
print("Your name is" + Name)

# Way 2
Name = "John"
print("Your name is", Name)


# Way 3, (f string)
Name = "John"
print(f"Your name is: {Name}")


# All of these output: Your Name is John
```





## Practice
This section will provide you with good examples of problems. If you can easily answer all of these problems, you are ready to move on to the next module. The answers to all the questions will be contained inside the repository.

Problem A  {Easy}

- Write a program that gets these inputs from the user (**name**, **age**, and **favorite food**), then prints them to the screen as follows:

```
Your name is: xxx
Your age is: xxx 
Your favorite food is: xxx
```

Problem B  {Medium}

-  Write a program that takes in these inputs from the user (**birth year** and **current year**), then calculate and print out how old they are, you should not worry about the day and month.

```
# if they enter their birth year to be 1990 and the current year to be 2025 then print out,
Your current age is: 35
```
